# RocketPig
This is a school project to help introduce myself to Unity and C#.

So to start you need to have both the exe and the data folder in the same spot to run the game. Also to exit the game hit the ESC key on your keyboard. Use the SPACE key to fly and do not hit the clouds or go off of either the top of bottom of the screen.

This game is very simple and easy to make. Unity does most of the work for you which is nice. So in Unity I have my files split between 4 asset folders: Prefabs, Scenes, Scripts, and Textures. Prefabs contains all the objects that I have prebuild and can produce multiple times. In the case of this game it contains only one thing and that is the cloud pairs that your pig flies through. The Scenes folder contains the scene which is like the level in your game. Mine however, only contains one as you only play on one scene. The next folder is Textures in which I store all of my pictures and stuff to be applied to different objects. Because this is a small game I only needed textures for the pig, some clouds to fly through, and the background. The final folder is Scripts which contain all the scripting files you use in your game which can be in multiple languages including C# and JavaScript. I only used C# in this project. I used three different script files: Generate, Obstacle, and Player. The game starts off with the player only on the map. The player has several attributes. One is the Rigidbody2D which is what Unity uses to apply physics to objects. It then has a Player script which give it its functions. and Then it has a Polygon Collider which is what checks for collision events. The Player script file that is attached to the pig does several things. For one it sets the amount the pig will fly up using the variable fly. Which is a Vector2 structure that assigns a change in position by 300. The Update method is then called (this is called once per frame) which checks for several things. It checks to see if the space key is being pressed and if it is it says apply a force to the player and passes in the fly vector. This applies 300 in the Y axis making it go up. The Update method also checks to see if the player has gone either off the top or bottom of the screen. If they did the player dies and the game resets. The last thing the Update method checks is to see if the ESC key has been pressed and if it has the game is exited. This script also handles collisions within the game. If there is a collision the game automatically calls this method which tells the game to reset. That is everything there is to the player. Now the clouds are auto generated using the Generate script. This script is an attribute assigned to an object that is created on start of the game called Scripts. The Generate script is passed my CloudPair form the Prefabs folder to use as the object being created. Within the script's start() method is another method called InvokeRepeating("CreateObstacle", 1f, 1.5f);. The first parameter is the name of the function to be called multiple times, the second parameter is the number of seconds to delay that calling of this function by(so wait 1 second before starting the call on this function), and the third parameter is the number of seconds between the function call(so after the first call call it every 1.5 seconds). The Generate script is also in charge of keeping score. To do this I started the score at -2 and then added one for every cloud pair created. I started at -2 because 3 cloud pairs had to be made before you reached the first one. The GUI to show you the score is made with the OnGUI() method. This methid uses GUI.color = Color.clack; and GUILayout.Label(" Score: " + score.ToString()); to set the GUI color to black and display the score. The last script is attached to the CloudPairs themselves. This script is the Obstacle script which is responsible for the movement of the cloud pairs across the screen. Similar to how the pig works; the cloud has a Vector2 variable but this time the x is set to -4 and the y to 0. There is also a float called range with a variable of 2. Then in the start method we assign the velocity of the cloud pairs to -4 using GetComponent<Rigidbody2D>().velocity = velocity;. This makes it so that the clouds move to the left of the screen which gives the illusion that the pig is flying forward. Then transform.position = new Vector2(transform.position.x, transform.position.y - range * Random.value); is called. This method tells the cloud pairs to change the x and y positions by the passed in variables. This is where the range comes in. This method will lower the y position by the range times a random number between 0.0 and 1.0. 

So that is pretty much all there is to my project. Thank you for taking the time to read this. 
